All right.
So before we get into CSX properties and stuff like that I want to take a break from from the East Coast
and just go into Google and take a look at the dev tools.
Now if you're not using Google if you're using Firefox or Safari those also have developer tools and
they have all they can do all this stuff we're gonna do in this video you just might have to look up
the shortcut to get to them or the menu item to get to them.
So in Chrome if you're on Windows you can hit F 12.
That should open them if you're on a Mac.
You can do option option command I and that will also open them.
And it's also in the menu so if you go up here and you go to more tools I know you guys can't see it
but off to the right there's a developer tools option and I can click that and that will also open them
up.
So there's a lot of tabs here and this did they're very powerful we can see network connections we have
a javascript console there's all types of stuff we can do here.
But what we want to focus on is the elements tab and what this does is it shows us all the age.
Tim Allen assets for the page.
And by the way if you want to make this bigger or smaller you can hit control plus to make it bigger
or control minus to make it smaller.
Also if you want it to dock on the side you could hit a guy like that or the other side or you could
even undock it.
This will undock it and put it in a separate window I just I usually like to have it on the bottom.
But anyways this is the H team all over here.
This is the CSX.
Now notice when I hover over something like the body it actually highlights everything that's in the
body if I hover over the div with the idea of welcome it hovers over that.
If I on collapses and I go over the H to paragraph so whatever I hover over it's going to highlight
in the browser and then if we want to select something we can go ahead and hit the select tool.
So it turned blue and then let's say I want to look at the H.
Tim Allen CSX for this welcome this H too right here I can click that and notice that it's now highlighted
down here and it also shows me the CSX.
So it shows me the H to CSX and the class of primary heading because that's a class that's actually
on this element.
Now we didn't put any of this H to stuff in here the font size display block there's some margin here.
Font weight bold this is default browser styling.
Every browser has default styling for the most part it's that it's pretty much the same.
And the way that we can tell this is but from the browser is right here user agent style sheet K by
user age and it basically means the browser that you're using this here this styling is coming from
our selectors each team I'll file.
Now usually this will be a CSX file because like I said usually we use external CSX files and you'll
see that when we start getting into projects but it's just going to give us whatever the file name the
CSX is located in.
All right.
Now we can actually change stuff here too temporarily.
So this welcome tech right here if I wanted to change this to say hello and then click somewhere else
to see the text actually changes.
I can also like I can change this if I want to.
I don't know other class and now you'll see that it's no longer blue because it doesn't have the primary
heading class.
The primary heading is where that blue came from.
OK.
Now what's cool is you can do this with any site like if we go to Google dot com and we open up our
tools here.
And what I want to do is click the Select Select eye icon and then this button right here.
So this is actually an input.
It has the type of submit member we we learned about this stuff in the in the last section and the value
is I'm feeling lucky.
So if I double click this I can change this to whatever and say I'm feeling awesome and you might want
to have some fun with this and noticed that it's changed now in the browser.
Now it hasn't changed on Google's servers so other people can see it.
It's only locally to our browser.
And if we reload the page it goes back to normal.
So if we wanted to change some CSX let's go up here and let's click on the body that gives us the CSX
of the body.
Let's say we wanted to change the background here which is white.
This is hexadecimal for white.
Let's change it to red.
So now we have a red body can change the color here to White.
And notice the text up here is not white because this has its own styling.
So if I click the select tool and let's click one of these links right here.
Notice the color is black.
So I'm going to select that and change it to white.
And now these links are white.
OK.
So you can really have some fun here you could replace the image link if you want.
What's and mean to do that but yes he now goes back to normal.
But you could change a whole bunch of stuff.
You can add content and it's only local to your machine.
No one else sees it obviously that the Internet would be a crazy place if you could just edit any one
site but it is kind of fun to mess with and you can learn a lot from doing stuff like that.
All right.
So I just wanted to kind of introduce you to the the chrome tools the developer tools and we will be
using these more as we go along in the course.
So in the next video we're going to start to look at fonts.
I want to look at different font families.
I want to talk about Web save fonts and we'll also look at colors.
All right.
So I'll see you in the next video.